All of us recognize
the last days are going “from bad to worse.”
Jehovah told us that it
was going to be the case.
And so, wickedness is just
so prevalent now.
I’m one who has always liked to keep up
with the news.
I like to find out how things are
with our brothers
in certain parts of the world
—for instance, Hurricane Florence.
But it’s filled with all this other garbage.
In fact, last night I started
(for about three minutes)
watching the 6:30 p.m. news
and I said, “Forget it.”
It’s just filled with it.
So the subject that we’re going to have
a discussion about this morning,
while sobering
(I hope you find it encouraging)
—I thought we’d discuss
the final end of God’s enemies.
So it can be very encouraging,
albeit sobering.
And to help us with it,
there’s a beautiful expression
here in the 37th Psalm
—so find that 37th Psalm.
And how encouraging
to meditate on this beautiful verse
—verse 20:
“But the wicked will perish;
“the enemies of Jehovah
will vanish like glorious pastures;
they will vanish like smoke.”
So since they’re Jehovah’s enemies
and Jehovah is our best Friend,
that means they’re our enemies.
How we look forward to
these enemies of Jehovah, our enemies,
‘vanishing like smoke’!
Now, in 1919,
Jehovah brought “the Israel of God” into
his favored position,
and then, as we know,
historically in the 1930’s,
the emphasis went toward
the “great crowd” of “other sheep.”
They’ve been flocking to his side,
and there are millions and millions
that are on Jehovah’s side.
And it just emphasizes
the righteousness of his sovereignty.
However, all of this growth
and the advances in this organization
—the earthly part that we’re discussing—
it infuriates Satan the Devil,
just infuriates him.
And hence, how we look forward to
the end of Jehovah’s chief enemy
as well as all the other enemies
that are under his influence!
Now, it’s interesting
that the Isaiah’s Prophecy book
had some sobering comments.
And find, if you would, please,
the very last chapter of Isaiah
and the very last verse in Isaiah
—Isaiah 66—
and we’re going to read verse 24:
“And they will go out and look on
the carcasses of the men
“who rebelled against me;
“for the worms on them will not die,
“and their fire will not be extinguished,
and they will become
something repulsive to all people.”
So it’s making reference to all of these
who rebel against Jehovah God
—his enemies.
Now, what makes this even more of an impact
is the fact that Christ Jesus
likely had this verse in mind
when he said these well-known words
—well-known to
Jehovah’s Witnesses anyway—
in Mark chapter 9.
Find Mark chapter 9,
and this is a very clear warning
for all who would want
to stay friends of Jehovah God.
Notice verses 47 and 48:
“And if your eye makes you stumble,
throw it away.
“It is better for you to enter one-eyed
into the Kingdom of God
“than to be thrown with two eyes
into Gehenna,
“where the maggot does not die
and the fire is not put out.”
Of course, Christendom will twist
these inspired thoughts of our Master,
Christ Jesus,
but it’s very clear.
And you’ll notice
that the cross-reference scripture
at the end of verse 48 is Isaiah 66:24.
So Jesus likely had that particular thought
from Isaiah in mind.
And here’s the warning
—the final end of God’s enemies
and how he feels about them.
Now, what is this place called Gehenna?
Just to review it a little bit,
the Isaiah’s Prophecy book
had some fine thoughts
to aid us with this.
They quote this Jewish scholar,
who wrote (and quoting him):
“It is a place . . . adjoining Jerusalem,
“and it is a loathsome place,
“and they throw there
unclean things and carcasses.
“Also there was a continual fire there
“to burn the unclean things
and the bones of the carcasses.
“Hence, the judgment of the wicked ones
is called parabolically Gehinnom,”
ending his quote.
So the Isaiah’s Prophecy book mentions:
“If, as this Jewish scholar suggests,
“Gehenna was used for
the disposal of refuse
“and carcasses of those
deemed unworthy of burial,
“fire would be a suitable means
of eliminating such refuse.
“[Now this is the point:]
What the fire did not consume,
the maggots would.”
Now, I don’t know if you
know much about maggots,
but if you see a whole bunch of them,
it’s just not a pleasant sight.
But what a fitting picture
of the final end of all of God’s enemies
—sobering, yet something
we look forward to!
However, the apostates
and the enemies of Jehovah would say:
“Well, that’s gruesome; that’s despicable.
You teach your people these things?”
No, God teaches his people these things.
This is what he’s foretelling.
And frankly, for friends of Jehovah God,
how reassuring
that they’re finally going to be gone
—all these despicable enemies
who have just reproached Jehovah’s name—
destroyed, never ever to live again!
Now, it’s not that we rejoice in
someone’s death,
but when it comes to God’s enemies,
finally they’re out of the way
—especially these despicable apostates,
who at one point had dedicated
their life to God
and then they joined forces
with Satan the Devil,
the chief apostate of all time.
So while we eagerly await
Jehovah bringing his enemies to their end,
here’s a very sobering point
from James chapter 4 that you’ll remember.
Let’s find James
and what he writes here
—James chapter 4.
And James, of course, Jehovah
used him and inspired him,
but he’s always nice and direct.
You don’t read James and go away saying,
“I wonder what he meant by that?”
It’s very clear, verse 4:
“Adulteresses, do you not know
“that friendship with the world
is enmity with God?
“Whoever, therefore, wants to be
a friend of the world
is making himself an enemy of God.”
So, what a clear warning!
We don’t want to have any friendship
—whether socially or on social networks—
with Jehovah’s enemies.
We’re not friends of the world.
We’re Jehovah’s friends.
We’re looking at him
as our closest and most precious Friend.
And we never would want Jehovah to view us
as an enemy.
So in conclusion, let’s go back to
that opening Psalm that we looked at here,
just to help this verse stay in your mind
—we hope.
Verse 20, just to emphasize this:
“But the wicked will perish;
the enemies of Jehovah
“will vanish like glorious pastures;
[particularly] they will vanish like smoke.”
So I just thought this would be
a nice memory aid
so that this verse stays in your mind.
Here is what Jehovah is promising:
That was Jehovah’s enemies
—they’re going to “vanish like smoke”!